Muhammad A. Alam 

Professor Alam holds the Jai N. Gupta professorship at Purdue University, where his research focuses on the physics and technology of semiconductor devices. From 1995 to 2003, he worked in the Silicon ULSI group at Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ. Since returning to Purdue in 2004, his group has explored the reliability physics of nanotransistors, limits of nanobiosensors, atom-to-farm modeling of solar cells, and physics/technology of Landau transistors. He is a fellow of IEEE, APS, and AAAS. His awards include the 2006 IEEE Kiyo Tomiyasu Medal for contributions to device technology for communication systems, the 2015 SRC Technical Excellence Award for fundamental contributions to reliability physics, and the 2018 IEEE EDS Education Award.  Prof. Alam enjoys teaching: More than 350,000 students worldwide have learned some aspects of semiconductor devices from his web-enabled courses. 

ALAM CEED group
Our group focuses on end-to-end modeling and characterization of electronic, optoelectronic, and bio-electronic devices, with an emphasis on their reliability physics. We look for system-level technological bottlenecks as new research topics and identify those problems whose solutions will illuminate the deeper physical principles involved. Our goal is the define  the "performance and reliability" potential of the technology for particular system-level applications.

In the past, we have worked on performance limits of resonant tunneling diodes and semiconductor lasers, theory of selective-area MOCVD crystal growth for optoelectronic ICs, mechanics of ALD crystal growth high-k dielectric deposition, and scaling limits of gate oxides and physics of oxide-semiconductor interface for MOSFET applications. For all these problems, we have developed new theoretical and computation tools to analyze the problems, worked closely with experimentalists to cross-check and verify our model predictions, and eventually encapsulated our understanding in broadly available tools for engineering design.

Currently, we are working on a series of research topics that reflect our vision for the semiconductor industry for the next 20-30 years.
